Hi David, Michael and Peter,

I have been thinking about these results for a little while now and have some further ideas and comments. I attach a mark up of the paper and a short paragraph to describe the solar wind data in detail so it will meet the usual standards of referees in the space plasma community (hopefully). The paper is very good and could probably go for publication with only some modification in a regular plasma physics journal (PoP, Astrophys. J., PPCF etc), and that would be my recommendation, but there is certainly a PRL type result further down the line if more work is done. The main reason I would pull away from the PRL at this stage is the lack of a coherent understanding of what is going on. The results are fascinating but there is not a complete picture yet and you are using a technique that is not common in the community which normally gives rise to objections from a typically conservative set off referees. I am probably also being too conservative here, plenty of PRLs have been published without complete understanding, but I don't like doing it personally. That doesn't mean I won't if that is what you want to do though; I am, after all, the minor partner in this work! On the other hand there is no reason not to publish this soon and then publish another paper later!


Anyway, on to my suggestions and rough answers to your questions below:

Yes, mutual information is a kind of nonlinear correlation measure based around entropy and complexity, hence why I thought of it after reading your paper. MI is 0 for either completely white noise (cross entropy = self entropy so cancel out to 0) or for completely linear correlation (self entropy = 0 and cross entropy = 0) but approaches 1 for correlated but complex systems, for example the phase transition in the Ising model of ferromagnets where there is a power law scaling of size of magnetic domains which means there are correlations on all scales making entropy high but also correlation. I am not sure it is necessarily useful in this context but you could certainly calculate it fairly simply from your existing analysis I would think. Since you have shown that the relationship between helicity and complexity is interesting there are other questions to ask, for example one could see if there is a "maximum complexity" helicity state, like an Ising model magnet, where the helicity is non-zero but not so high that there is only one giant flux structure, i.e. there is a mixture of different scale helical structures. Just a guess…. might be impossible experimentally, although shooting two opposite helicity structures toward one another might do it….

I really like your idea below about the different embedding and the focus on timescale / spatial scale is incredibly important. How do your sampling rates in the lab. compare to the gyro frequency / convected gyro-scale? From the published results and spectra in the draft paper it looks to me like you are sampling at very small scales so I would say that a better solar wind data set to compare to would be some very high cadence data. I could dig out some Cluster data which gets close to the electron scales with the sampling rate and this might have a higher level of complexity because all of the kinetic physics of ions would become visible and the MHD part of the cascade (the flattest part of the spectrum and so most like noise) might have less influence. The other, but possibly less physically relevant option, would be to go to large scales so you are seeing more of the structure put into the solar wind from the Sun but I don't know how that would correspond to your lab. data.

This hits on to the idea of finding a physical cause for the results, do you see different CH results for different helicity because you are actually observing the different large scale complexities of the flux in your experiment, or is the turbulence and then the type of fluctuation found at kinetic scales different in the presence of more helical states? To me your spectra seem to indicate that you are sampling very small scales / high frequencies relative to the ion motions and so with a low embedding dimension it is hard to see how you would be accessing the larger scale helical structure directly. Also, from the solar wind we know that the inertial range is multi-fractal, i.e. the fractal scaling changes with scale, but the 'dissipation' range is mono-fractal, could this correspond to an increased complexity and lower entropy in the dissipation range since the results will appear less 'jumbled' at a low embedding dimension? Did you try calculating the fractal / multi-fractal nature of your results? I seem to remember seeing a plot of the "zeta vs tau" i.e. fractal scaling for your results, your PRL from April doesn't have it but you must be able to calculate it from your results in that paper. See the attached paper by Kiyani for the detail of what I am trying to say (Figure 3 in particular is the plot I am looking from your data). If your lab plasma confirms the solar wind results of mono-scaling in the dissipation range but multi-fractal behavior in the inertial range then that would be a solid PRL (if you didn't already do this).

The other key point I think is that in your discussion about the degrees of freedom in each system you do not mention Reynolds number or Lundquist number which are the usual definitions of degrees of freedom in turbulent plasma. If you can calculate these that would be great, although they are notoriously difficult to calculate. LAPD could well be the classic low-dimensional chaos of a few interacting modes, could SSX be weak turbulence (i.e. many wave-wave interactions occur before energy is cascaded)? Weak turbulence has an inertial range scaling of -2 (close to the observed spectrum in SSX) and would explain the lower entropy than the solar wind since there are longer scale correlations. Solar wind is thought to be strong turbulence which is high-dimensional chaos with high Reynolds number and Lundquist number and contains only very short range correlations. 

If you can couch the results in terms of Reynolds and Lundquist numbers and the low / high dimensional chaos description then it will be easier to sell as a PRL.

Another silly idea: your B_dot observations are the local changes in the magnetic field so they are like pre-made structure functions, i.e. FFT(B) = FFT(Bdot) / frequency (not in amplitude but the spectral exponent scaling should match) and the pdf of Bdot should be like the pdf of differences used in the solar wind research on structure functions and fractal / multi fractal scaling. So try your analysis on the differences of the solar wind data rather than the raw values.

This email has become very long so I'll stop there!

Best regards,
Robert